Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-itis-cs-5180-assignment6-news-application
<br>
In this assignment we are going to develop a news application using the newsapi.orgJSON API. Follow the following steps to setup the API:• Create a new account and register as a developer at https://newsapi.org/register• Get an API Key to be used for this application.• In this application we are going to use the top headlines api, for information checkthe following link https://newsapi.org/docs/endpoints/top-headlinesPage 2 of 3Figure 1, Application WireframeConnecting with the APIThe interface should be created to match the user interface (UI) presented in Figure 1.You will be using layout files, and strings.xml to create the user interface. Perform thefollowing tasks:1. This app should use the top headlines api to retrieve news items from the USA andfor the category selected by the user. The possible categories are business,entertainment, general, health, science, sports, and technology as indicated in theapi documentation at https://newsapi.org/docs/endpoints/top-headlines2. Clicking on the “Go” Button should display a list of categories as shown in Figure 1.You can either Alert Dialog or Spinner to implement it.3. Clicking on a category should do the following:a) The TextView will hold the search category clicked by the user.b) Use AsyncTask/Thread to connect to the top headlines to retrieve and parse theJSON returned for the selected category. The AsyncTask/Thread class should bein a separate file/class not inner to the main thread. i.e. You should managepassing parameters to the class and then pass back the result imagedownloaded to the UI.4. When the api data is retrieved:a) Display the first news item from the list of retrieved news items as shown inFigure 1.b) Use Picasso to retrieve and display the first image associated with the displayednews item and display it in the ImageView.5. The Next and Previous news item icons should be disabled when the application islaunched, and enabled after the first news item is displayed. The buttons will alsoremain disabled in the case there is only 1 or 0 news items corresponding to theprovided category. Use icons provided in Support Files for setting the image icons(next.png, prev.png)6. Do not store the photos, simply download and display the retrieved photos. Also donot attempt to download all the URLs receive, and your app should only downloadand display a single news photo at any given time.7. Upon clicking the “Next” icon, you should display the next news item from theretrieved news items and download the news photo accordingly. If the currentlydisplayed news item happens to be the last news item, you should display the newsitem at index 0 (first news item) and download the news photo accordingly.8. Clicking the “Previous” icon, you should display the previous new item from theretrieved news items and download the news photo accordingly. If the currentlydisplayed news item happens to be the first news item, you should display the lastnews item and download the news photo accordingly.9. Notice the “1 out of 20” text at the bottom of the screen, this should be updatedaccording to the currently displayed news item.10. If the api returns an empty list of news items then clear the currently displayed newsitem and display an error Toast message “No News Found”.11. Your application should connect with the api and download the requested photo onlyif there is an established internet connection. If there is no internet connection youshould display a Toast message indicting that there is no internet connection and donot attempt to send the HTTP request.